GOOGLE DRIVE TO PROTON DRIVE — SETUP AND USER GUIDE

PURPOSE
These scripts copy selected files/folders, or all of My Drive, from Google
Drive to Proton Drive. Google originals are not deleted or changed.

FILES
- googleDrive.py: starts the complete migration workflow.
- protonDrive.py: supplies Proton CLI connection, browsing, upload, and
  verification functions. Keep both scripts in the same folder.
- credentials.json: your Google OAuth Desktop app configuration.
- proton-drive.exe: official Proton Drive CLI for Windows.
You can rename the scripts to googleDrive.py and protonDrive.py. The Google
script looks for protonDrive(1).py first, then protonDrive.py. Keep only the
intended Proton helper version in that folder.

REQUIREMENTS
1. Python 3.10 or newer to run the source scripts.
2. An internet connection and browser access for account sign-in.
3. A Google account with access to the source files.
4. A Proton account with enough available Drive storage.
5. The official Proton Drive CLI for your operating system:
   https://proton.me/download/drive/cli
6. A writable project folder and local disk space for staging downloads.
   Verification downloads a second copy of the current file. Allow space
   for roughly twice the largest file, plus any retained failed files.
7. Python packages (install from PowerShell or a terminal):
   python -m pip install google-api-python-client google-auth-httplib2 google-auth-oauthlib

GOOGLE SETUP
1. Open https://console.cloud.google.com/ and create or select a project.
2. Enable the Google Drive API.
3. Configure the OAuth consent screen / Google Auth Platform settings.
   If the app is in external testing mode, add your account as a test user.
4. Create an OAuth client with application type Desktop app.
5. Download its JSON configuration and save it as credentials.json beside
   the Google script. A service-account JSON file is not a substitute.
6. On first launch, sign in through the browser and grant read-only Drive
   access. The script saves token.json and reuses it on later launches.
   If authorization is revoked or expires, sign-in may be needed again.

PROTON SETUP
Place proton-drive.exe beside the scripts on Windows. Alternatively, add
its directory to PATH or set PROTON_DRIVE_CLI to the full executable path.
PowerShell example (applies to this terminal session):
   $env:PROTON_DRIVE_CLI = "C:\Tools\proton-drive.exe"

Optional connection test in the folder containing the executable:
   .\proton-drive.exe version
   .\proton-drive.exe auth login
   .\proton-drive.exe filesystem list /my-files --json

The CLI handles browser login and session storage. On Linux, its default
credential storage requires a working OS secret store such as libsecret.
Refer to the official CLI documentation for platform setup:
   https://proton.me/support/drive-cli

START THE COMPLETE MIGRATION
Open PowerShell; VS Code is not required:
   cd C:\Project\drive-migration
   python "googleDrive.py"

1. The application connects to Google Drive.
2. It finds the Proton CLI and checks the saved session. If the session
   check fails, review the error. Answer y to start browser sign-in, or
   press Enter to stop. Sign-in will not fix a network or CLI error.
3. Choose migration mode:
   1 = Browse and select files/folders.
   2 = Migrate all of My Drive.
   q = Cancel.
4. Choose your Proton destination.
5. Migration begins immediately after destination selection. There is no
   additional upload-confirmation prompt.

SELECT GOOGLE FILES AND FOLDERS (MODE 1)
- Enter a displayed folder number to open it.
- Enter a displayed file number to add that file to the selection.
- Enter a 1,2,3 to add multiple displayed files or folders.
- n = Next page; p = Previous page; b = Parent folder.
- d = Finish selecting; q = Cancel.
- all = Select everything in My Drive, even if browsing a nested folder.
Enter d separately; for example, type a 8,10,11,18, press Enter, then type d.
Folder selections include their nested contents. Repeated selections are
processed once per Google file ID. There is no remove-selection command.

MIGRATE ALL OF MY DRIVE (MODE 2)
This selects every non-trashed item at the My Drive root, then recursively
processes folders. It does not separately enumerate Shared drives or Shared
with me. A folder visible within My Drive can include accessible shared
content. Google shortcuts are unsupported and are reported as failures.

SELECT THE PROTON DESTINATION
- Enter a folder number to open it.
- s = Select the current folder and start migration.
- n = Create a remote folder, then enter it.
- b = Go back; q = Cancel.
Creating a folder changes Proton Drive immediately, even if you later cancel.

WHAT HAPPENS DURING TRANSFER
1. Recreate or reuse selected folder paths in Proton Drive.
2. Download one Google file to a local staging folder beside the scripts.
3. Upload that file to the selected Proton folder.
4. Download the Proton copy into a separate verification folder.
5. Compare SHA-256 hashes of the local source and Proton copy.
6. If the hashes match, mark success and delete the local staging copy.
7. If upload/verification fails, retain the local copy and continue.
8. After the initial pass, retry failed uploads up to three additional times
   (four total upload attempts per failed file).
9. Print success/failure totals and save report.json.

GOOGLE DOCUMENT CONVERSION
- Google Docs -> .docx
- Google Sheets -> .xlsx
- Google Slides -> .pptx
- Google Drawings -> .pdf
Other Google-native types, including shortcuts, are unsupported. Exported
Office/PDF files may not preserve every Google-specific feature. Version
history, sharing permissions, comments, and original cloud metadata are not
fully migrated. Names incompatible with local paths are sanitized; naming
collisions may receive a Google file ID suffix.

EXISTING PROTON FILES
The upload uses --file-conflict-strategy skip and
--folder-conflict-strategy merge. Existing files are not overwritten.
A same-name file must pass content verification to count as success. If its
content differs, the run reports a failure and retains the local copy.
Ambiguous remote names can also cause verification failure.

REPORTS AND FAILED FILES
Each run creates a folder such as:
   C:\Project\drive-migration\google-proton-xxxxxxxx
Inside it, report.json records file status, attempts, errors, destinations,
and retained local-file paths. Successful folder creation is not separately
counted; folder failures can appear as report entries.
- success: uploaded/existing content verified.
- failed_upload: upload or verification failed; local file retained.
- failed_download: Google download/export failed.
- failed_folder: remote folder setup or Google folder enumeration failed.
- downloading / pending_upload: the operation may have been interrupted.
A cleanup_warning means verification succeeded but local cleanup had a problem.
The report folder remains even if every file succeeds.

CURRENT LIMITATIONS
- Upload failures are retried during the same run; download/folder failures
  do not enter that retry loop.
- There is no automatic resume-from-report or retry-previous-run option.
- A new run downloads selected Google files again. Retained files can be
  uploaded manually, but manual CLI upload alone does not run the script's
  SHA-256 verification.
- Ctrl+C cancels. Existing downloaded files/report are retained where possible.
- Verification adds a complete Proton download for every transferred file.

RUN THE PROTON SCRIPT ALONE
   python "protonDrive.py"
It connects to Proton, lets you choose a destination, and asks for a local
file/folder to upload. Press Enter at the source prompt to select only.
This standalone mode does not run Google migration, hash verification,
automatic retries, or the migration report.

TROUBLESHOOTING
CLI was not found:
   Put the executable beside the scripts, set PROTON_DRIVE_CLI, or fix PATH.
Unknown option --conflict-strategy:
   Use the updated Proton script. Your tested CLI requires separate
   --file-conflict-strategy and --folder-conflict-strategy options.
Missing credentials.json:
   Download OAuth Desktop app credentials and place them beside the script.
ModuleNotFoundError:
   Run the package-install command using the same Python used to launch.
Upload succeeded but verification failed:
   Keep the retained file. Check the report, remote filename conflicts,
   network access, and the CLI download output before retrying.
Disk space or permissions error:
   Use a writable folder and free space for staging, verification, and failures.

OPTIONAL WINDOWS EXECUTABLE BUILD
Build on Windows using PyInstaller; keep the console enabled for input prompts.
   python -m pip install pyinstaller
For the original downloaded filenames:
   python -m PyInstaller --noconfirm --clean --onedir --console --contents-directory "." --name GoogleToProton --add-data "protonDrive(1).py:." --collect-all googleapiclient "googleDrive(3).py"
Copy credentials.json and proton-drive.exe into dist\GoogleToProton.
Run:
   .\dist\GoogleToProton\GoogleToProton.exe
Keep the entire output folder together in a writable location. This build
procedure still needs testing on Windows. Users of the packaged build do not
need Python installed separately.

ACCOUNT FILES
Keep token.json private. Do not publish it, migration reports, or downloaded
personal files in a public repository. Do not distribute your signed-in session
with an application build. Each user should sign in with their own accounts.
